>> Woodruff: IT WAS DAY TWO FOR
GAY MARRIAGE AT THE SUPREME
COURT.
AT ISSUE: WHETHER LEGALLY
MARRIED SAME-SEX COUPLES CAN BE
DENIED FEDERAL BENEFITS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Suarez: AND I'M RAY SUAREZ ON
THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT.
WE EXCERPT TODAY'S ARGUMENTS,
GET ANALYSIS FROM MARCIA COYLE
AND HAVE OUR OWN DEBATE ON THE
"DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE ACT."
>> Woodruff: THEN, TWO TAKES ON
GAGENING DISADVANTAGED STUDENTS:
FIRST, THE STORY OF HIGH SCHOOL
TEACHERS IN NEW YORK CITY, USING
HIP HOP MUSIC AND A MOUSFA
RAPPER TO TEACH SCIENCE.
>> i LOST MY PASSION FOR
SCIENCE, SO WHEN I CAME HERE AND
I'M GOING TO BOMB IT,
DEFINITELY."
BUT NOW THAT THEY'RE MIXING IT
UP WITH MUSIC, I FEEL LIKE I CAN
GET AN A-PLUS.
>> Suar: ANezD JEFFREY BROWN
EXAMINES A STUDY SHOWING THE
MOST SELECTIVE UNIVERSITIES ARE
FALLING SHORT IN RECRUITING
HIGH-ACHIEVING APPLICANTS, WHO
ARE POOR.
>> WE ARE FAILING AT THE ELITE
COLLEGES IF WE DON'T CREATE
SOCIAL MOBILITY.
THAT'S ONE OF OUR BIGGEST
RESPONSIBILITIES.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, HARI
SREENIVASAN lookS AT HOW A CYBER
WAR BETWEEN THOSE WHO SEND SPAM
AND THOSE TRYING TO STOP IT IS
CATCHING MANY MILLIONS OF
INTERNET USERS IN THE CROSSFIRE.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
TOPPED THE DOCKET FOR A SECOND
DAY AT THE U.S. SUPREME COURT.
THIS TIME, THE ARGUMENTS
REVOLVED AROUND EVERYTHING FROM
TAX BREAKS TO HEALTH COVERAGE--
THE LEGAL BENEFITS ATTACHED TO
MARRIAGE UNDER FEDERAL LAW.
AGAIN, "NEWSHOUR" CORESPONDENT
KWAME HOLMAN BEGINS OUR
COVERAGE.
>> Reporter: THE CROWDS WERE
THINNER, AND MADE UP MOSTLY OF
GAY MARRIAGE SUPPORTERS.
AND FOR SOME, THE REASONS FOR
BEING THERE WERE INTENSELY
PERSONAL.
NICOLE CONNOLLY IS A TEACHER
FROM NEW YORK, MARRIED TO A
WOMAN WHO'S A CAPTAIN IN THE
U.S. MARINES.
>> I AM HERE FOR HOUSING
ALLOWANCE, I AM HERE FOR
MEDICAL, I AM HERE FOR DEATH
BENEFITS, I'M HERE FOR NEXT OF
KIN QUALIFICATIONS, A PLETHORA
OF REASONS.
>> Reporter: ON THIS SECOND DAY
OF ARGUMENTS, THE JUSTICES
TURNED THEIR ATTENTION TO A
FEDERAL LAW, "THE DEFENSE OF
MARRIAGE ACT."
THE 1996 LAW SIGNED BY PRESIDENT
CLINTON SPECIFICALLY LIMITS
MARRIAGE TO ONE MAN AND ONE
WOMAN.
KNOWN AS THE "DOMA", IT PREVENTS
SAME SEX COUPLES FROM COLLECTING
FEDERAL MARRIAGE-RELATED
BENEFITS, EVEN IF THEY'VE BEEN
LEGALLY MARRIED BY A STATE.
THE PRINCIPAL IN TODAY'S CASE,
EDIE WINDSOR OF NEW YORK,
MARRIED THEA SPYER, IN 2007.
>> WE LIVED TOGETHER FOR 40
YEARS, WE WERE ENGAGED WITH A
CIRCLE DIAMOND PIN BECAUSE I
WOULDN'T WEAR A RING BECAUSE I
WAS STILL IN THE CLOSET, OKAY.
I AM TODAY AN OUT LESBIAN, OKAY,
WHO JUST SUED THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA, WHICH IS KIND OF
OVERWHELMING FOR ME.
>> Reporter: SPYER DIED IN 2009
AND LEFT HER ESTATE TO WINDSOR,
BUT THE MARRIAGE WAS NOT
RECOGNIZED UNDER FEDERAL LAW, SO
WINDSOR FACED THE FULL ESTATE
TAX BURDEN-- $360,000.
WINDSOR CHALLENGED DOMA AND WON
IN THE LOWER COURTS.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION THEN
DECLINED TO DEFEND THE LAW
FURTHER.
WITH THAT, HOUSE REPUBLICAN
LEADERS INTERVENED, ASKING THE
SUPREME COURT TO UPHOLD DOMA.
TODAY, EVEN SOME WHO SUPPORT THE
LAW SAID THEY'D FAVOR LEGAL
RIGHTS FOR SAME-SEX COUPLES, BUT
NOT ACTUAL MARRIAGE.
JIM McDONALD IS FROM ALEXANDRIA,
VIRGINIA.
>> IF PEOPLE IN CIVIL UNIONS
WERE TO GET FEDERAL BENEFITS
THAT WERE EQUIVALENT TO WHAT
MARRIED PEOPLE GET, THAT DOESN'T
BOTHER ME AT ALL.
BUT E WOTHRD MARRIAGE, I THINK
NEEDS TO MAINTAIN IT'S
TRADITIONAL MEANING.
>> Reporter: THE COURT IS
EXPECTED TO DECIDE THE "DOMA"
CASE AND YESTERDAY'S CASE
INVOLVING PROPOSITION EIGHT IN
CALIFORNIA BY JUNE.
>> Suarez: MARCIA COYLE OF THE
"NATIONAL LAW JOURNAL" WAS IN
THE COURTROOM THIS MORNING AND
IS BACK WITH US TONIGHT.
FOR PEOPLE WHO DON'T FOLLOW THIS
VERY CLOSELY, KNOW THAT THE TWO
BIG ARGUMENTS HAD TO DO WITH GAY
MARRIAGE, WHAT ARE THE MAIN
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN YESTERDAY'S
ARGUMENT AND TODAY'S?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE IS AN
INHERENT TENSION HERE FOR THOSE
WHO SUPPORT GAY MARRIAGE.
IN THE DOMA CASE TODAY, ONE OF
THE ARGUMENTS IS THAT THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HAS
INTRUDEOLD WHAT IS A TRADITIONAL
STATE PREROGATIVE, AND THAT IS
TO DEFINE AND REGULATE MARRIAGE.
AND YET IN THE PROP 8 CASE, THE
OPPONENTS OF PROP 8, WHICH BANS
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE, ARE ATTACKING
THE VOTERS, THE STATE'
PREROGATIVE TO DEFINE MARRIAGE.
BUT THEY HAVE A COMMON BOND,
THOUGH, AND THAT IS THAT THE
OPPONENTS OF DOMA AND PROP 8 SEE
BOTH AS DISCRIMINATION UNDER THE
EQUAL PROTECTION GUARANTEES OF
OUR CONSTITUTION AND ARE ARGUING
FOR A MUCH TOUGHER KIND OF
SCRUTINY OF WHAT THE STATE DID--
WHAT CALIFORNIA DID AND WHAT THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT DID IN DOMA.
>> Suarez: THERE IS SO MANY
JUICY AND INTERESTING ASPECTS TO
TODAY'S ARGUMENT.
IT BEGAN WITH VICKI JACKSON, A
LAWYER APPOINTED BY THE COURT TO
DO WHAT?
>> WELL, ONE OF THE-- TWO OF THE
ROADBLOCKS IN THE DOMA CASE,
SIMILAR TO THE ROADBLOCK IN THE
PROP 8 CASE, HAS TO DO WITH
WEATHER KEY PARTIES IN THE CASE
ARE PROPERLY BEFORE THE SUPREME
COURT, AND WHETHER THE COURT HAS
JURISDICTION TO HEAR THE CASE.
THE UNITED STATES DOES NOT
DEFEND DOMA.
IT BELIEVES IT'S
UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
IT AGREES WITH EDIE WINDSOR.
IT AGREES WITH THE LOWER FEDERAL
APPELLATE COURT.
THE BIPARTISAN LEGAL ADVISORY
COMMITTEE OF THE HOUSE--
>> Suarez: REPRESENTING THE
HOUSE MAJORITY, THE REPUBLICANS.
>> EXACTLY.
BELIEVEBELIEVES THAT THAT IT'S
RIGHTFULLY BEFORE THE COURT, AS
DOES THE UNITED STATES.
THE COURT NEEDED SOMEBODY TO
ARGUE THE OTHER SIDE.
THEY WANT TO HEAR ALL THE
ARGUMENTS.
DO THOSE-- ARE THOSE TWO PARTIES
PROPERLY BEFORE US?
DO WE HAVE JURISDICTION?
SO THEY APPOINTED PROFESSOR
JACKSON.
>> Suarez: IN EFFECT IF I
UNDERSTAND THIS, THEY APPOINTED
A LAWYER TO ARGUE TO THEM THAT
THEY HAD NO JURISDICTION TO HEAR
THE CASE?
>> EXACTLY, EXACTLY, TO MAKE
THOSE ARGUMENTS.
THAT WAY THEY GET THE FULL
PICTURE, RAY.
>> Suarez: A LOT OF BACK AND
FORTH BETWEEN JUSTICES AND
LAWYERS TODAY WENT TO WEATHER
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
DECLINING TO ENFORCE THE LAW
CREATED A SITUATION THAT MAKES
THIS, IN SOME SENSE, IMPOSSIBLE
TO JUDGE.
TELL US MORE ABOUT HOW THIS--
HOW THIS HIT THE JUSTICES
BECAUSE A LOT OF THEM HAD A LOT
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT IT.
>> THEY DID.
IN FACT, THEY ARE TROUBLED BY
THE JURISDICTIONAL PROBLEMS
HERE, NOT JUST WITH THE UNITED
STATES BUT ALSO WITH THE HOUSE
REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP.
BUT MOST OF PROFESSOR JACKSON'S
ARGUMENT WAS DEVOTED TO
RESPONDING TO QUESTIONS ABOUT
THE UNITED STATES, AND THERE WAS
SOME HOSTILITY.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS SAID,
"WELL, IF THE PRESIDENT DECIDED
THAT THIS LAW WAS
UNCONSTITUTIONAL AND YET IS
GOING TO ENFORCE IT UNTIL THE
SUPREME COURT SAYS OTHERWISE,
WHY DIDN'T THE PRESIDENT HAVE
THE COURAGE OF HIS CONVICTIONS,
IF HE BELIEVES THE LAW IS
UNCONSTITUTIONAL, AND NOT
ENFORCE IT?"
SO THERE WAS, ALSO, THIS FEELING
THAT THIS WAS SOMETHING
UNPRECEDENTED THAT THE COURT WAS
BEING ASKED TO ALLOW THE UNITED
STATES TO CONTINUE IN THE CASE
WHEN IT BASICALLY AGREES, IS
THERE REALLY A CASE OR
CONTROVERSY HERE IF THE TWO MAIN
PARTIES-- THE UNITED STATES AND
WINDSOR-- AGREE WITH EACH OTHER.
>> Suarez: WE'RE GOING TO HEAR
A LOT OF THE INTERESTING BACK
AND FORTH BECAUSE, AS WITH MANY
BIG CASES, WE HAVE AN AUDIO
TRANSCRIPT OF THE ARGUMENTS.
FIRST, LET'S HEAR FROM JUSTICE
SOTOMAYOR, BEARING DOWN ON THE
HOUSE REPUBLICAN'S LAWYER, PAUL
CLEMENT, ON THE MOTIVATION FOR
THE ORIGINAL LAW.
LET'S TAKE A LISTEN.
>> THIS IS ONE OF THE OVERRIDING
ISSUES IN THE CASE, ONE OF TWO,
ACTUALLY.
WHAT WE PUT UNDER THE BROAD
RUBRIC OF FEDERALISM.
WHO HAS THE POWER UNDER THE
CONSTITUTION TO DEAL WITH
MAECIALG?
TRADITIONALLY IT HAS BEEN THE
STATES.
BUT MR. CLEMENT'S ARGUMENT IS
THAT, OKAY, DOMA AFFECTS 1100
FEDERAL LAWS, AND THE-- THOSE
LAWS THAT HAVE A REFERENCE TO
MARRIAGE, THERE IS A FEDERAL
INTEREST IN THE PROGRAMS THAT
THOSE LAWS DEAL WITH.
HE'S ARGUES AS WELL THAT DOMA
DISTRIBUTE REGULATION MARRIAGE.
IT'S JUST DEFINING THE
BOUNDARIES OF THOSE PROGRAMS
THAT REFER TO MARRIAGE.
SO HE ALSO BELIEVES THAT THERE
IS A ROLE FOR THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT WHEN IT COMES TO
MARRIAGE, NOT-- NOT REGULATING
IT, BUT ENSURING THAT THERE'S
UNIFORMITY OF FEDERAL LAW, AND
THAT CITIZENS IN DIFFERENT
STATES ARE TREATED THE SAME WAY.
>> Suarez: JUSTICE ELENA KAGAN
ALSO WAS INTERESTED IN FOLLOWING
UP ON THIS IDEA OF ANIMOUS, OF
DISCRIMINATION, OF DISTASTE FOR
GAY PEOPLE IN AMERICA.
LET'S LISTEN.
>> Suarez: DOESN'T SOUND LIKE
PAUL CLEMENT HAD MANY SUPPORTERS
ELSEWHERE ON THE BENCH FOR HIS
READING OF WHY THIS LAW EXISTS
IN THE FIRST PLACE.
>> THAT'S A HARD READ.
I THINK THAT AT LEAST FOUR
JUSTICES, POSSIBLY FIVE, HAVE A
PROBLEM WITH HIS ARGUMENTS.
JUSTICE KAGAN WAS GETTING AT THE
SECOND MAJOR ISSUE IN THIS CASE,
AND THAT'S WHETHER THE LAW
DISCRIMINATES UNDER THE EQUAL
PROTECTION CLAUSE, THE GUARANTEE
OF THE FIFTH AMENDMENT.
SHE WAS NOT SATISFIED WITH HIS
ANSWER.
IN FACT, SHE FOLLOWED UP BY
READING SPECIFICALLY FROM THE
HOUSE REPORT ON DOMA WHERE THE
LEGISLATORS SAID THAT THEY WERE
EXPRESSING THEIR MORAL
DISAPPROVAL OF HOMOSWULT.
SO SHE WAS MAKING A POINT THERE
APPEARED THERE WAS ANOTHER
REASON.
AND MR. CLEMENT'S RESPONSE WAS
MAYBE SOME WERE MOTIVATED THAT
WAY, AND IF THE COURT BELIEVES
THAT THE WHOLE STATUTE WAS BASED
ON THAT, THEN IT SHOULD STRIKE
IT DOWN, BUT HE CLAIMS THERE
ARE-- THAT WAS REALLY NOT
SUFFICIENT BECAUSE THERE ARE
MANY OTHER INTERESTS THAT
JUSTIFY DOMA.
>> Suarez: WE ALSO HAVE THE
SOLICITOR GENERAL, DONALD
VERRILLI, WHO NORMALLY WOULD BE
ARGUING DEFENDING THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT'S PLXZ OF A LAW, SO
WAS IN A SORT OF UNUSUAL ROLE
TODAY, ARGUEs THA ARGUING THAT D
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES, PASSED BY THE CONGRESS,
SHOULD BE STRUCK DOWN.
LET'S TAKE A LISTEN.
BLAG BLAG
>> Suarez: IT SOUND LIKE THERE
WAS A LITTLE DISCOMFORT WITH THE
SWEEPING NATURE OF WHAT THE
COURT WAS BEING ASKED TO DO.
>> SOLICITOR GENERAL VERRILLI,
HE WAS TELLING THE CHIEF JUSTICE
THAT THESE 1100 STATUTES MAY
WELL HAVE BEEN ENACTED BY
CONGRESS WITH THE TRADITIONAL
STATE DEFINITION IN MIND.
BUT WHEN CONGRESS ENACTED DOMA,
IT MADE A CHOICE BETWEEN
DEFERRING TO HOW STATES HANDLE
MARRIAGE, AND SINGLING OUT A
CATEGORY OF PEOPLE WHO WOULD NOT
BENEFIT UNDER FEDERAL LAWS, AND
THAT CHOICE, HE SAID, HAS TO BE
JUSTIFIED UNDER EQUAL PROTECTION
PRINCIPLES.
THERE IS SOME CONCERN-- THE
CHIEF JUSTICE DID PRESS HIM AND
OTHERS DID, I THINK, ON
WHETHER-- UNDER HIS ARGUMENT IF
DWOAMA FALLS UNDER EQUAL
PROTECTION PRINCIPLES, DOES THAT
MEAN THE STATE LAWS THAT
PROHIBIT SAME-SEX MARRIAGE ALSO
HAVE TO FALL.
AND MR. VERRILLI SAID NOT
NECESSARILY, ALTHOUGH THEY WOULD
HAVE A VERY DIFFICULT TIME
JUSTIFYING THEM UNDER THE KIND
OF SCRUTINY THAT MR. VERRILLI
HOPES THE COURT WILL APPLY HERE.
>> Suarez: MARCIA COYLE,
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: THERE'S MUCH MORE
ABOUT THE SAME SEX MARRIAGE
CASES ON OUR WEBSITE.
YOU CAN HEAR AUDIO OF TODAY'S
FULL ARGUMENTS AND ALSO WATCH
REACTION FROM OUTSIDE THE
COURTROOM.
AND COMING UP, A DEBATE ABOUT
THE DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE ACT.
ALSO AHEAD, USING HIP HOP MUSIC
TO ENGAGE STUDENTS IN SCIENCE;
LURING LOW INCOME STUDENTS TO
ELITE UNIVERSITIES AND SLOWING
DOWN TRAFFIC ON THE INTERNET.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: THE NEW DIRECTOR
OF THE U.S. SECRET SERVICE WAS
SWORN IN TODAY.
JULIA PIERSON IS THE FIRST WOMAN
TO HOLD THE JOB.
SHE OFFICIALLY ASSUMED HER NEW
DUTIES IN AN OVAL OFFICE
CEREMONY IN THE WHITE HOUSE.
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN
ADMINISTERED THE OATH, AS
PRESIDENT OBAMA LOOKED ON.
>> SHE'S BREAKING THE MOLD IN
TERMS OF DIRECTORS OF AGENCIES.
AND I THINK THAT PEOPLE ARE ALL
EXTRAORDINARILY PROUD OF HER,
AND WE HAVE THE GREATEST
CONFIDENCE IN THE WONDERFUL TASK
THAT LIES AHEAD, AND VERY
CONFIDENT THAT SHE'S GOING TO DO
A GREAT JOB.
>> Sreenivasan: PIERSON TAKES
OVER AN AGENCY THAT WAS ROCKED
LAST YEAR BY REVELATIONS THAT
AGENTS USED PROSTITUTES IN
COLOMBIA, AHEAD OF A
PRESIDENTIAL TRIP THERE.
THE MAN ACCUSED IN THE MOVIE
THEATER SHOOTINGS IN COLORADO
LAST JULY, HAS OFFERED TO PLEAD
GUILTY AND SERVE LIFE IN PRISON.
DEFENSE LAWYERS FOR JAMES HOLMES
FILED THE MOTION TODAY.
PROSECUTORS HAD NO IMMEDIATE
RESPONSE.
THEY'RE DUE TO ANNOUNCE MONDAY
WHETHER THEY'LL SEEK THE DEATH
PENALTY.
HOLMES IS ACCUSED OF OPENING
FIRE IN A THEATER IN AURORA,
COLORADO, KILLING A DOZEN PEOPLE
AND WOUNDING NEARLY 60.
NORTH KOREA TODAY CUT ITS LAST
MILITARY HOTLINE WITH THE SOUTH.
THE LINE HAD ALLOWED THE TWO
COUNTRIES TO COORDINATE CROSS-
BORDER TRAVEL OF SOUTH KOREAN
WORKERS TO A JOINTLY RUN
INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX IN THE NORTH.
NORTH KOREA'S STATE T.V.
ANNOUNCED THE MOVE, AND IT
WARNED SOUTH KOREA'S NEW
PRESIDENT TO CHOOSE HER RESPONSE
CAREFULLY.
>> (translated): THE SOUTH
KOREAN PRESIDENT SHOULD BEHAVE
WITH DISCRETION, CLEARLY MINDFUL
THAT A WRONG WORD MAY ENTAIL
HORRIBLE DISASTER AT A TIME WHEN
THE NORTH-SOUTH RELATIONS ARE
BEING PUSHED TO THE LOWEST EBB
AND THE DANGER OF AN ALL-OUT WAR
IS INCREASING ON THE KOREAN
PENINSULA.
>> Sreenivasan: THE NORTH HAS
ALREADY CUT A RED CROSS HOTLINE
WITH THE SOUTH, AS WELL AS
ANOTHER WITH THE U.N. COMMAND AT
THE BORDER.
IT IS ALL A RESPONSE TO U.N.
SANCTIONS AIMED AT PUNISHING
NORTH KOREA FOR CONDUCTING A
NUCLEAR TEST LAST MONTH.
FORMER C.I.A. DIRECTOR DAVID
PETRAEUS HAS RESURFACED PUBLICLY
FOR THE FIRST TIME SINCE HE
RESIGNED LAST NOVEMBER.
HE ADDRESSED A DINNER IN LOS
ANGELES LAST NIGHT, AND
APOLOGIZED FOR THE EXTRA-MARITAL
AFFAIR THAT COST HIM HIS CAREER.
PETRAEUS SAID HE KNOWS HE CAN
NEVER UN-DO THE PAIN HE CAUSED.
BUT HE SAID, HE'S TRYING TO MOVE
FORWARD.
>> THIS HAS OBVIOUSLY BEEN A
VERY DIFFICULT EPISODE FOR US.
BUT PERHAPS MY EXPERIENCE CAN BE
INSTRUCTIVE TO THOSE WHO STUMBLE
OR INDEED FALL AS FAR AS I DID.
ONE LEARNS, AFTER ALL, THAT LIFE
DOESN'T STOP WITH SUCH A
MISTAKE.
IT CAN AND MUST GO ON.
>> Sreenivasan: PETRAEUS IS A
RETIRED, FOUR-STAR GENERAL.
HE CALLED FOR BETTER TREATMENT
OF SOLDIERS AND VETERANS, SAYING
"WE CAN AND MUST DO MORE."
A FEDERAL BANKRUPTCY COURT TODAY
APPROVED THE MERGER OF AMERICAN
AIRLINES AND UNITED AIRWAYS.
THE COMBINED COMPANY WILL FORM
THE WORLD'S LARGEST AIRLINE,
UNDER THE AMERICAN NAME.
AND ON WALL STREET, STOCKS
STRUGGLED TO HOLD THEIR GROUND,
AMID LINGERING CONCERNS ABOUT
THE ECONOMIC STABILITY OF CYPRUS
AND ITALY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 33 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
14,526.
THE NASDAQ ROSE FOUR POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,256.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: AND WE RETURN TO
TODAY'S SUPREME COURT ARGUMENTS
INVOLVING THE FEDERAL DEFENSE OF
MARRIAGE ACT WITH A DEBATE OF
OUR OWN.
SUPPORTING THE LAW IS KEN
KLUKOWSKI.
HE'S THE DIRECTOR OF THE CENTER
FOR RELIGIOUS LIBERTY AT THE
FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL AND A
BREITBART NEWS LEGAL COLUMNIST.
AND MARY BONAUTO OPPOSES DOMA.
SHE IS SPECIAL COUNSEL FOR THE
GROUP GAY AND LESBIAN ADVOCATES
AND DEFENDERS.
WELCOME TO THE YOU BOTH TO THE
"NEWSHOUR."
WE WERE SAYING THERE WAS SOME
DISCUSSION AT THE COURT TODAY
ABOUT JURISDICTION, BUT WE'RE
GOING TO SET THAT ASIDE AND TALK
ABOUT THE CORE OF THE ARGUMENT
TODAY.
FIRST OF ALL, MARY BONAUTO, IN
THE ANALYSIS I'VE BEEN READING,
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF FOLKS WHO
ARE CONCLUDING THAT THERE ARE
ENOUGH VOTES NOW ON THE COURT TO
STRIKE DOWN DOMA.
HOW DID YOU READ GENERALLY WHAT
YOU HEARD FROM THE JUSTICES
TODAY?
>> I'M NOT PREPARED TO MAKE ANY
PREDICTIONS BASED ON AN ORAL
ARGUMENT BUT CLEARLY THE
QUESTIONS WERE GOING TO TWO KEY
ISSUES.
ONE IS WHEN THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT HAS FOR SO LONG
DEFERRED TO A STATE'S
DETERMINATION ABOUT WHO IS
MARRIED, WHY IN 1996 DID THEY
CHANGE THE RULES WHEN IT LOOKED
LIKE SAME-SEX COUPLES MIGHT
BEGIN TO MARRY AND IMPOSE A
FEDERAL DEFINITION.
SECONDLY, WHEN YOU HAVE ALL
THESE PROTECTIONS AVAILABLE TO
MARRIED PEOPLE, YOU KNOW, WHY
ARE YOU TAKING PEOPLE FROM
MASSACHUSETTS, CONNECTICUT,
VERMONT, AND SAYING THER
MARRIAGES DON'T COUNT FOR SOCIAL
SECURITY AND FAMILY MEDICAL
LEAVE AND TREATING THEM LIKE
THEY'RE SINGLE EVEN THOUGH
THEY'RE LEGALLY COMMITTED IN
MARRIAGE.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TALK ABOUT
THE TWO DIFFERENT STREAMS OF
ARGUMENT TODAY, ONE LOOSELY
DISCRIMINATION, THE OTHER ONE
LOOSELY THE FEDERAL VERSUS THE
STATES.
AND, KEN KLUKOWSKI, DOES ONE OF
THOSE STRANDS OF ARGUMENT HAVE
GREATER WEIGHT, DID YOU THINK,
TODAY?
WHAT YOU HEARD?
>> WELL, THE REALITY IS THAT I
THINK LOOKING AT IT FROM A
DIFFERENT ASPECT, DOMA FILLED IN
THE BLANKS -- THERE ARE A LOT OF
BLANK, ABOUT 1100 PROVISIONS OF
FEDERAL LAW.
FOR EXAMPLE, FILING TAXES.
IF YOU'RE GOING TO FILE A JOINT
MARRIED TAX RETURN, IT'S THE TAX
CODE THAT SPECIFIES THAT IF YOU
ARE MARRIED BUT SEPARATED FROM
YOUR SPOUSE-- NOW,EGALLY MARRIEE
BUT IT'S ILLEGAL FOR YOU TO FILE
A MARRIED TAX RETURN.
YOU MUST FILE AN UNMARRIED
PERSON TAX RETURN.
IF YOU ARE MARRIED TO SOMEONE
WHO IS NOT A CITIZEN AND THEOR
NOT IN THE COUNTRY YOU HAVE TO
FILE SINGLE TAX RETURNS.
THERE ARE MANY AREAS OF LAWS
GOING BACK DECADE WHERE'S
CONGRESS HAS HAD THE DEFINITION
OF MARRIAGE.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING
THERE IS A ROLE FOR THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT IN REGULATING THESE
RELATIONSHIPS.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
WHO CAN GET MARRIED IS A STATE
ISSUE, BUT WHAT FEDERAL
BENEFITS, USUALLY ENTITLEMENTS,
WHAT FEDERAL BENEFITS GO TO
WHICH SORT OF UNIONS, THAT'S A
LEGITIMATE EXERCISE OF FEDERAL
POWER, SO LONG AS IT IT'S ONE OF
CONGRESS' POWERS IN ARTICLE 1,
SECTION 8 OF THE CONSTITUTION.
>> Woodruff: AND WE HEARD
JUSTICE KENNEDY TODAY
QUESTIONING THAT'S IN
PARTICULAR, DIDN'T WE, THE ROLE
OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IN
OVERRIDING THE STATES IN
DETERMINING HOW THESE LAWS ARE
GOING TO BE INTERPRETED.
>> WE DID, AND JUST TO RESPOND
QUICKLY, WE'EV HAS
WIPED OUT A WHOLE CLASS OF
MARRIAGES FOR PURPOSES OF EVER
FEDERAL LAW AND PROGRAM, AND
THAT'S WHAT DOMA IS, IN THE
CONTEXT OF ANY PARTICULAR
PROGRAM, YES,RE
BEEN A LAW THAT SAID THESE
PEOPLE ACTUALLY MARRIED BY STATE
ARE NOT MARRIED FOR ANY FEDERAL
PURPOSE.
THAT'S WHAT IS SO DIFFERENT
ABOUT DOMA WHICH GETS TO THE
EQUAL PROTECTION ISSUE AND
JUSTICE KENNEDY HAD ANOTHER SET
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT DOES THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT EVEN HAVE THE
POWER TO DO THIS, NOT EVEN FROM
AN EQUAL PROTECTION STANDPOINT,
BUT ISN'T THIS SOMETHING THAT
SOLELY BELONGS WITH THE STATES
IN.
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT'S THE
ANSWER TO THAT QUTIONES?
>> THERE ARE FEDERAL ISSUES.
IT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT REQUIRED
SEVERAL FAITS, AS A CONDITION
FOR BECOMING A STATE, THAT THEY
MUST ADOPT THE STATE STANDARD
THAT THEY WOULD NOT ALLOW
POLITICAL ME.
THE SUPREME COURT DEALT WITH
MARRIAGE OTHER THAN ONE MAN, ONE
WOMAN IN "REYNOLDS VUNITED
STATES.
DOMA DEFINES MARRIAGES FOR
FEDERAL LAW PURPOSES.
THE STATE IS FREE TO CREATE
POLYGAMY OR SAME-SEX MARRIAGE.
BUT THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
RECOGNIZES ONE MAN, ONE WOMAN,
HAS AN IMPACT ON CURRENT
IMMIGRATION EFFORTS.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT SPREADS
THROUGHOUT THE FEDERAL LAW.
THE REALITY IS FEDERALISM HAS
TWO PARTS.
WHERE THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS
PROPERLY IN THE CONSTITUTION,
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT GETS TO
SET ITS OWN RULE.
>> THERE ARE A FEW RESPONSSE ON
TO THAT.
ON THE POLYGAMY THING, THESE
WERE TERRITORIES AND THE
TEITORRRIES AS A CONDITION OF
STATEHOOD HAD TO AGREE TO
SOMETHING.
IT HAS NEVER BEEN THE CASE THAT
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAS AGAIN
INVALIDATED A WHOLE CLASS OF
EXISTING STATE LICENSED
MARRIAGES.
DOMA IS AN ANOMALY.
AND I DON'T THINK THERE WAS ONE
EXW DISAGREEMENT WITH THAT ON
THE COURT TODAY, AT LEAST WHAT
ONE COULD HEAR FROM THE
QUESTIONS.
>> Woodruff: THE OTHER STRAND
ON THIS -- AND YOU TOUCHED ON
THIS, MARY BONAUTO-- WHETHER
THERE IS OIT AND OUT
DISCRIMINATION.
WE HEARD IT FROM JUSTICE
SOTOMAYOR.
WE HEARD IT FROM JUSTICE KAGAN.
WE HEARD HER ASK AT ONE POINT--
SHE TALKED ABOUT MORAL
DISAPPROVAL OF HOME'S SEXUALITY.
HOW DOES THAT PLAY OUT IN THE
COURT TODAY AND HOW IMPORTANT IS
THAT THO DECIDING THIS CASE?
>> MORE IMPORTANT IS THATOBAMA .
THEY READILY SAID IN COURT DOMA
WAS NOT DRIVEN BY ANIMOUS.
IN FACT, THEY SAID DOMA-- WHAT
IS CALLED RATIONAL BASIS
REVIEWSH THE FEDERAL STANDARD
UNDER EQUAL PROTECTION WHEN WE
EVALUATE LAWS-- THE OBAMA
SOLICITOR GENERAL, VERRILLI,
SAID IF RATIONAL BASE REVIEW IS
THE TET DOMA WOULD SURVIVE.
THIS LOU-- THEY SAID CONGRESS
MADE A MISTAKE IN PNG
WAS NOT TRYING TO DISCRIMINATE.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT ROLE DO
YOU SEE DISCRIMINATION PLAYING
IN THE OUTCOME HERE?
>> I SEE IT PLAYING A ROLE.
IN 1996, IT WAS REALLY CLEAR
THAT THE LAW WAS YOU TAKE STATE
MARRIAGE LAWS AS YOU FIND THEM.
YOU FOLD MARRIED PEOPLE--
WHETHER THEY HAVE DIFFERENCES IN
RACIAL RESTRICTION IN THE PAST
OR FIRST COUSINS, SECOND COUSINS
IF YOU WERE MARRIED IN THE
STATE, THEY CHANGED THE RULE TO
MAKE SURE MARRIED SAME-SEX
COUPLES WOULD NOT BE INCLUDED.
QUIET BECOMES IS THERE A
JUSTIFICATION FOR MAKING A NEW
RULE?
AND THE JUSTIFICATION THAT'S
BEEN ADVANCED BY MR. CLEMENT IS
REALLY AROUND THIS IDEA OF
UNIFORMITY, THAT IT'S IMPORTANT
TO TREAT ALL GAY PEOPLE ALIKE.
BUT WE HAVE A SYSTEM-- WHEN
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT FEDERAL
MARITAL BENEFITS AND BURDENS--
OF TREATING MARRIED PEOPLE.
AND WE HAVE AN ANOMALY WHERE
WE'RE TREATING MARRIED GAY
PEOPLE AS THOUGH THEY'RE
UNMARRIED AS OPPOSED TO TREATING
ALL MARRIED PEOPLE ALIGNING,
WHETHER THEY'RE GAY OR NONGAY.
THE UNIFORMITY THING DOESN'T
SEEM TO MAKE A LOT OF SENSE.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU ANSWER
THAT?
>> I THINK THERE IS A LEGITIMATE
FEDERAL ROLE HERE.
THE REASON I RAISE POLYGAMY
ISN'T TO RAISE A FAR-OFF ISSUE.
LITIGATION HAS STARTED.
JONATHAN TURLEY, A PROFESSOR AT
GEORGE WASHINGTON, PURSUING
LITIGATION IN UTALK SAYING IF
THERE IS A RIGHT TO SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE, THERE IS A RIGHT TO
POLYGAMY.
HE'S SAYING I'M ALL FOR THAT.
I DON'T THINK THE GOVERNMENT
SHOULD DISCRIMINATE ON THAT
BASE, ARTHUR.
I THINK BOTH SIDE AGREE THERE IS
A ROLE FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO
DRAW LINES.
WE'RE JUST DEBATING WHERE THOSE
LINES ARE.
I THINK AS WE UNDERSTAND THE
DIFFERENT COMBINATIONS THAT
COULD BE INVOLVED, THEN PEOPLE
WILL UNDERSTAND WHAT THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION CONCEDED IN COURT
AND IN THEIR BRIEFS TODAY THAT
DOMA DOES SERVE LEGITIMATE
INTEREST AND IS REASONABLY
WRLT
RELATED TO IT.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION SAID
THE LAW WILL ONLY BE STRUCK DOWN
IF THE COURT APPLIES WHAT'S
CALLED HEIGHTENED SCRUTINY TO
THIS LAW.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO CLARIFY
WITH YOU BOTH THAT YOU'RE BOTH--
DO I HEAR YOU SAYING IT'S THE
FEDERALISM ARGUMENT THAT'S GOING
TO HOLD MORE WEIGHT HERE?
>> I THINK THE EQUAL PROTECTION
ARGUMENT IS GOING TO HOLD MORE
WEIGHT ULTIMATELY.
AND I SAY THAT BECAUSE EVEN IF
YOU TAKE THE SITUATION WHERE--
LET'S JUST EVEN SAY, EVEN THOUGH
IT'S SO FAR FETCHED -- SOME
STATE DOES DAUTHORIZE MULTIPLE
PERSON MARRIAGES, ON EQUAL
PROTECTION THE QUESTION IS WHAT
IS THE GOVERNMENT'S INTEREST IN
THAT THEY'RE NOT GOING TO
RESPECT THOSE MARRIAGES.
THE QUESTION IS NOT LET'S CHANGE
THE TOPIC.
WHAT'S THE INTEREST IN SAYING
THESE COMMITTED COUPLES JOINED
IN MARRIAGE BY THEIR STATES,
MANY OF WHOM ARE RAISING KID,
SHOULD BE CUT OUT OF THE WHOLE
FEDERAL SAFETY NET.
>> QUICK RESPONSE IS, IN THAT
ONE PART, I AGREE WITH THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, AND I WOULD
ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO LOOK AT
THEIR FILINGS OF WHAT THE
LEGITIMATE CENTER TR IS AND WHY
THEY AGREE THAT DOMA DOES INFACT
ADVANCE THEM.
>> Woodruff: KEN KLUKOWSKI,
MARY BONAUTO, WE THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Suarez: NOW, TWO STORIES
ABOUT FINDING WAYS TO ENGAGE
STUDENTS FROM LOW-INCOME
HOUSEHOLDS.
WE BEGIN WITH A NEW WAY TO LEARN
ABOUT A NUCLEUS, I RECENTLY
VISITED A NEW YORK CLASSROOM
WHERE THEY'RE USING RAP MUSIC TO
TEACH KIDS SCIENCE.
>> THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE
ORGANISM THETAS MORE BENEFICIAL
FOR THE ENVIRONMENT GETS PASSED
ON.
>> Suarez: TEACHING A MORNING
BIOLOGY LESSON IN ANY HIGH
SCHOOL IS HARD IN
UNDERPERFORMING URBAN SCHOOLS
WITH LOW TESTS SCORES, IT'S EVEN
HARDER.
>> WHAT WAS THE POINT OF THAT
LAB?
WAS THERE A POINT?
WHAT WAS THE POINT, WHAT WAS THE
POINT OF THE SIMULATION?
>> TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO COME UP
WITH NATURAL SELECTION.
>> WHAT IS NATURAL SELECTION,
THOUGH.
>> Reporter: THE
>> Suarez: THE CHALLENGE HAS
BROUGHT CHRIS EMDIN, A PROFESSOR
FROM COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY'S
TEACHERS COLLEGE BACK INTO THE
CLASSROOM.
EMDIN'S MISSION: TO FIND A WAY
TO MAKE SCIENCE SOMETHING THESE
KIDS CAN RELATE TO.
HIS IDEA: TO USE HIP-HOP MUSIC
TO UNLOCK SCIENCE IDEAS; USE THE
IPOD TO HELP YOU GET NATURAL
SELECTION.
>> WHAT HAPPENS IF A SONG IS
JUST NOT POPPING ANYMORE?
YOU WON'T SELECT IT TO BE IN
YOUR PLAYLIST, RIGHT?
WELL, IF AN ATTRIBUTE OF AN
ORGANISMS, RIGHT, IF ITS NOT
NEEDED ANYMORE, THEN IT WON'T
GET PASSED ON TO THE NEXT
GENERATION.
IN OTHER WORDS, IT WOULDN'T MAKE
THE NEW PLAYLIST, DOES THAT MAKE
SENSE?
>> Suarez: EMDIN HAS PARTNERED
WITH TEN NEW YORK CITY PUBLIC
HIGH SCHOOLS LIKE THIS ONE--
BRONX COMPASS-- FOR A PILOT
PROJECT USING HIP HOP TO ENGAGE
LOW PERFORMING STUDENTS,
PARTICULARLY MINORITIES.
ACCORDING TO THE NATIONAL
ASSESSMENT OF EDUCATIONAL
PROGRESS, ONLY 4% OF AFRICAN-
AMERICAN SENIORS NATIONALLY WERE
PROFICIENT IN SCIENCES.
>> THE BASIC CONCEPT IS, THEY
LOVE HIP HOP, THEY DON'T LIKE
SCIENCE, LET'S FIND A WAY TO
FIGURE IT OUT.
>> Suarez: THE NEW-MODEL
CURRICULUM REQUIRES STUDENTS TO
WRITE RAPS ABOUT SCIENCE--
REINFORCING VOCABULARY, AND THE
CONCEPTS COVERED IN CLASS.
IT'S CALLED "SCIENCE GENIUS."
>> SO NOW YOU GOT MUTATION AND
I'M GOING TO LEAVE FOR TWO
MINUTES AND COME BACK AND CHECK.
WHAT THE BEST SCIENCE EDATORUCS
HAVE TOLD US FOR A VERY LONG
TIME, THAT THE IN SCIENCE
CLASSROOMS IS THAT IT'S INTER
DISCIPLINARY, SO THEY'RE
LEARNING THE SCIENCE CONTENT,
BUT THEY'RE ALSO LEARNING TO
WRITE, AND THEY'RE ALSO LEARNING
REFLECTION, AND THEY'RE ALSO
LEARNING CRITICAL THINKING, AND
THEY'RE ALSO LEARNING REVISION,
AND THEY'RE ALSO LEARNING
PERFORMANCE, ALL WHILE LEARNING
SCIENCE, AS OPPOSED TO THE
TRADITIONAL CLASSROOM WHERE
THEY'RE JUST LEARNING TO SOAK UP
IN THE INFORMATION, AND
HOPEFULLY GIVE IT BACK, YOU
KNOW, A COUPLE DAYS LATER ON A
QUIZ OR AN EXAM.
>> Suarez: UNDER THE DIRECTION
OF EMDIN, COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
GRADUATE STUDENTS VISIT A
REGULAR SCIENCE CLASS ONCE A
WEEK TO HELP CRAFT RAPS.
NATURAL SELECTION WE TALK
ABOUT A RABBIT IS ADAPTIVE LIKE
ITS PARENTS
>> THIS IS NOT JUST KIDS
RHYMING, THEY'RE RUBRICSOR F
ASSESSMENT, A KID CAN'T COME IN
THERE AND JUST HAVE A REALLY
SIMPLE SUPERFICIAL RAP AND
SAYING, YOU KNOW, "I'M HERE TO
PLAY, THIS IS DNA," THAT
WOULDN'T WORK, THAT KID WOULD
NOT PASS A SCIENCE GENIUS CLASS.
YOU HAVE TO BE ABLE TO
UNDERSTAND THE NUANCES, WHAT
DOES D.N.A. STAND FOR, YOU KNOW,
WHAT ARE THE BASE PAIRS, YOU
KNOW, WHAT'S THE HISTORY OF DNA?
TO CREATE A RAP ABOUT D.N.A.,
YOU HAVE TO KNOW THE
>> Suarez: A SURPRISE VISIT FROM
EDMIN'S MOST IMPORTANT
COLLABORATOR AND CO-FOUNDER OF
THE SCIENCE GENIUS HIP HOP
SCIENCE EXPERIMENT CREATES THE
BIGGEST STIR.
THE RAPPER G.Z.A.--FROM ONE OF
THE GREATEST RAP GROUPS OF ALL
TIME, WU-TANG CLAN, IS A TENTH
GRADE DROP OUT TURNED SCIENCE
GEEK.
HE ADDS STAR POWER TO THE
PROJECT AND SHOWS THE STUDENTS
HOW IT'S DONE.
>> GRAVITY GONE MADE, DRAWN IN
BY DUST A DEBRIS, MOVING AT
COLOSSAL SPEED TO CRUSH AN M.C.,
THIS RAP REGION IS HEAVILY
PACKED WITH STARS, ETERNAL INS,
FROM A DISTANCE THE LIGHT
STROBES WITH GREAT DISTANCE OF
SPACE BETWEEN PRECISE GLOBES
BETWEEN.
WHEN YOU BRING AN ARTIST IN, A
HIP HOP ARTIST, AND CHILDREN ARE
SO CONSUMED WITH HIP HOP MUSIC,
THEN IT'S A WAY FOR THEM TO LET
THEIR GUARD DOWN, OR AT LEAST BE
COMFORTABLE ENOUGH TO GIVE IT A
LISTEN.
>> FOR YOUNG PEOPLE WHOSE VOICES
HAVE BEEN SILENCED, THEY'RE
FOREVER IN SEARCH OF AN
OPPORTUNITY, TO BE HEARD, AND
YOU DON'T HAVE THE TOOL TO BE
HEARD IN SCHOOLS, NECESSARILY
ALL THE TIME, AND SO THEY LOOK
TO HIP HOP TO HAVE A VOICE.
WHAT WE'RE DOING NOW IS SAYING,
OKAY, YOU HAVE A VOICE IN HIP
HOP, AND HIP HOP IS SEPARATE
FROM SCHOOLS, BUT NOW WERE
GIVING YOU A VOICE IN THE
CLASSROOM, AND THAT CHANGES
EVERYTHING, AND THAT'S WHAT
G.Z.A. DOES.
>> Suarez: IT SEEMED TO CHANGE
EVERYTHING FOR STUDENT KEEGAN
DILLION.
>> I WAS LIKE, IS THIS FOR REAL?
I REALLY ASKED SOMEBODY TO PINCH
ME.
BUT IT WAS JUST CRAZY, THE WAY,
THE TIMING, HOW UNEXPECTED IT
WAS, I WAS SURPRISED.
>> Suarez: BUT KEEGAN SAYS EVEN
WITHOUT A VISIT FROM A FAMOUS
RAPPER, THE HIP HOP SCIENCE
GENIUS CLASS IS MOTIVATION
ENOUGH.
>> I LOST MY PASSION FOR
SCIENCE, SO WHEN I CAME HERE AND
EVERYTHING, I WAS LIKE, "OH, I'M
GOING TO BOMB IT DEFINITELY.
BUT NOW THAT THEY'RE MIXING IT
UP WITH MUSIC, I FEEL LIKE I CAN
GET AN A-PLUS.
>> Suarez: DOES IT HELP YOU
ACTUALLY LEARN THE SCIENCE?
I'M SURE ITS MORE FUN, BUT ARE
YOU ACTUALLY LEARNING MORE
SCIENCE?
>> BELIEVE ME I AM.
I ACTUALLY SIT HOME, LOOKING UP
DIFFERENT SCIENCE TERMS BEFORE
WE ACTUALLY LEARN THEM, AND THEN
I ACTUALLY LIKE READ THE
DEFINITIONS AND ALL THAT.
THEN I PUT THEM INTO MY RAPS AND
EVERYTHING.
SO IT REALLY IS HELPING, I'M
STARTING TO GET BACK ON TRACK
WITH MY SCIENCE.
>> Suarez: THE SCIENCE GENIUS
PROJECT WILL FINISH WITH A
BATTLE OF THE BEST RAPS BETWEEN
THE TEN PILOT CLASSROOMS AT THE
END OF THE SCHOOL YEAR.
G.Z.A. WILL JUDGE THE RAPS AND
THE BEST ONES WILL APPEAR ON THE
WEBSITE "RAP GENIUS".
I COULD TAKE WHAT I SAW EARLIER
TODAY, AND SHOW IT TO SCIENCE
TEACHERS AROUND THE COUNTRY, AND
CERTAINLY SCIENCE DEPARTMENT
CHAIRMEN ACROSS THE COUNTRY, AND
THEY'D SAY TWO THINGS: IT'S A
GIMMICK AND ARE THEY LEARNING
ANY SCIENCE?
>> SO I'LL START OFF WITH THE
GIMMICK.
EVERYTHING IN EDUCATION IS A
GIMMICK, THE PRESENT WORLD,
SPECIFICALLY OF URBAN EDUCATION,
IS FILLED WITH GIMMICKS.
UNFORTUNATELY, THOSE GIMMICKS
HAVE NO GROUNDING IN THE YOUTH
UNDERSTANDINGS AND CULTURE.
YOU KNOW, EVERY SINGLE DAY
THERE'S A NEW CURRICULUM, NEW
STANDARDS.
BUT I WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE
LARGER ISSUE, AND THE LARGER
ISSUES IS THE FACT THAT THERE IS
AN OBSESSION WITH THESE METRICS
THAT IN REITY ALDON'T TELL US
ANYTHING ABOUT TEACHING AND
LEARNING.
THEY REALLY, REALLY DON'T.
THEY TELL YOU HOW MUCH A KID CAN
SOAK IN INFORMATION, BUT, AND
SPIT IT BACK OUT AT YOU, BUT IT
WON'T TELL YOU ANYTHING ABOUT
THE KID WHO THROUGH BEING IN
THIS CLASSROOM FINALLY SEES
HIMSELF AS A SCIENTIST.
>> YOU SEE I'M AN ORGANISM,
CHANGING EVERY MINUTE, I'M NOT
TOO GOOD AT SCIENCE, BUT I'M A
STILL GET IN IT, I REMIX MY
LIFESTYLE, CHANGE IT THROUGH MY
LIFELINE.
I MUTATE THE FLOW AND I GO WITH
INSTINCT.
AS A LYRICIST MY MIND IS CAVE,
DARWIN ALREADY TURNING OUT IN
HIS GRAVE, SO I KEEPING IT IN
MOTION LIKE HUMAN EVOLUTION.
(APPLAUSE)
>> HOW DO I MEASURE KEEGAN, WHO
CAME IN THE BEGINNING, AND WAS
BORED TO DEATH, AND DIDN'T LIKE
SCIENCE, AND HAS HIS HEAD DOWN
FOR THE ENTIRE ACADEMIC YEAR,
WHO ALL OF A SUDDEN IS OPENING
UP HIS BOOK, AND DOING HOMEWORK
AND CRAFTING SCIENCE RHYMES, AND
SAYING, YOU KNOW WHAT, I CAN
DECLARE A SCIENCE MAJOR.
THERE IS NO TEST THAT EXISTS
RIGHT NOW THAT CAN MEASURE THAT,
AND THAT IS MORE POWERFUL THAN
ANY METRIC THAT ANYBODY COULD
USE TO MEASURE WHAT HAPPENS IN
CLASSROOMS.
>> Suarez: EDMIN SAYS THAT FOR
MANY INNER CITY YOUTH SCIENCE
TECHNOLOGY ENGINEERING AND MATH,
STEM ACADEMICS, WILL CONTINUE TO
REMAIN ELUSIVE WITHOUT
INTERVENTIONS LIKE SCIENCE
GENIUS.
>> WHAT WE'RE DOING HE, ATRE THE
VERY LEAST, IS ALLOWING KIDS TO
SEE THAT THEY CAN BE BRILLIANT.
THAT WHAT THEY KNOW ALREADY IS
INTELLIGENT, THAT THEY CAN SEE
NEW POSSIBILITIES, TO BE ABLE TO
PICK UP THE "NEW YORK TIMES" ON
TUESDAY AND READ THE SCIEENC
TIMES AND UNDERSTAND IT.
I MEAN, IF WE REALLY WANT TO
CHANGE STEM EDUCATION, AND WE
TALK ABOUT AS A NATION THAT WE
DON'T HAVE ENOUGH PEOPLE TO FILL
THOSE KIND OF STEM JOBS THAT WE
HAVE, THEN WHAT WE HAVE TO DO IS
FOCUS ON THE FOLKS WHO'VE BEEN
PUSHED OUT, BECAUSE THEY'RE THE
NUMBERS THAT WE NEED TO PUSH
BACK IN.
>> Suarez: EMDIN SAYS HE'S
CONFIDENT THAT AT THE END OF THE
YEAR ATTENDANCE WILL BE UP, AND
GRADES WILL BE UP AND THAT THE
SCIENCE GENIUS MODEL IS EASILY
SCALED UP FROM A HANDFUL OF NEW
YORK SCHOOLS TO STUDENTS AROUND
THE COUNTRY.
AND WE HAVE MORE FROM THE WU-
TANG CLAN'S G.Z.A.
WATCH HIM PERFORM MATERIAL FROM
HIS UPCOMING ALBUM "DARK
MATTER."
AND CREATE YOUR OWN SCIENCE RAP
FOR A CHANCE TO WIN A SHOUT-OUT
FROM THE LEGENDARY HIP-HOP
ARTIST.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPOSING AND
SUBMITTING A VIDEO FOR OUR
CONTEST ARE ON OUR WEBSITE.
>> Woodruff: AND TO A SECOND
STORY ABOUT STUDENTS FROM POORER
BACKGROUNDS.
WHY ARE SOME OF THE TOP
ACHIEVERS MISSING OUT ON A SHOT
TO GO TO SOME OF THE BEST
UNIVERSITIES?
JEFFREY BROWN EXPLORES THAT
QUESTION, PART OF OUR CONTINUING
COVERAGE ON INEQUALITY IN
AMERICA.
SPHWHROW FOR YEARS, COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES HAVE BEEN TRYING TO
DIVERSIFY THE STUDENT BODY NOT
JUST BY ETHNICITY BUT GK AS
WELL.
DESPITE HIGH-PROFILE MOVES AT
SOME SCHOOLS TO DO SO, INCLUDING
BIG BOOST IN FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE AND FULL TUITION, THE
NUMBERS STILL FALLING SHORT OF
THE GOAL.
A RECENT STUDY IS SHEDDING NEW
LIGHT ON THE PROBLEM AND WHAT'S
BEHIND IT.
THE ANALYSIS FOUND JUST 34% OF
HIGH-ACHIEVING SENIORS FROM THE
LOWER END OF THE INCOME LADDER
ATTEND ONE OF THE 238 MOST
SELECT SCHOOLS.
BY COMPARISON, NEARLY 80% OF
HIGH-ACHIEVING STUDENTS FROM THE
UPPER END OF THE INCOME LADDER
ATTEND AN ELITE SCHOOL.
THERE ARE MANY MORE HIGHER
ACHIEVING STUDENTS FROM LOWER
INCOME BACKGROUNDS THAN SCHOOLS
KNOW OF OR ARE RECRUITING.
THE LEAD AUTHOR OF THE STUDY
JOINS US, AND MICHELLE MINTER
VICE PROVOST FOR EQUITY AT
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY.
AND I LEARNED JUST NOW AS WE SIT
DOWN THEY ARE SISTERS.
WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> CAROLINE HUX BEE, LET ME
START WITH YOU, DESCRIBE THE KEY
PROBLEM THAT YOU FOUND IN THIS
STUDY, THE DISCONNECT BETWEEN
LOW-INCOME STUDENTS NOT FINDING
THEIR WAY TO THE BEST SCHOOLS.
>> WELL, THE PROBLEM AS
UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES SAW
IT, WAS THAT THEIR JUST WERE NOT
VERY MANY LOW-INCOME,
HIGH-ACHIEVING STUDENT, AND SO
IF A SELECTIVE COLLEGE WANTED TO
DIVERSIFY ITS STUDENT BODY,
WANTED TO HAVE STUDENTS OF ALL
INCOME LEVELS, IT JUST DIDN'T
FIND VERY MANY LOW-INCOME
STUDENT IN ITS APPLICANT POOL.
AND THE COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES THOUGHT, LOOK WE
JUST CAN'T DIVERSIFY OUR STUDENT
BODIES VERY MUCH MORE WITHOUT
CUTTING OUR ADMISSIONS STANDARDS
SO MUCH WE'LL HAVE SOME
UNDER-PREPARED STUDENT.
THAT WAS THE PROBLEM AS THEY SAW
IT.
AND WHAT MIGHT COAUTHOR, CHRIS
AVERY AND I DID, WAS WE LOOKED
AT THE ENTIRE HIGH SCHOOL
GRADUATING CLASS OF 2008.
SO EVERY SINGLE STUDENT IN THE
UNITED STATES WHO HAD TAKEN A
COLLEGE ASSESSMENT EXAM, EITHER
THE S.A.T., THEP S.A.T., OR THE
ACT EXAM, AND WE LOOKED TO SEE
HOW MANY LOW-INCOME,
HIGH-ACHIEVING STUDENTS THERE
WERE AND WE FOUND THAT THERE
WERE ANYTHING FROM EIGHT TIMES
AS MANY AS COLLEGES HAD THOUGHT
THERE WERE, TO 15 TIMES AS MANY
AS COLLEGES THOUGHT HTHOUGHT
THERE WERE.
>> Brown: AND YOU ALSO,
THOUGH, SHOWED THAT THE
STUDENT-- STUDENTS DON'T KNOW TO
REACH FURTHER IN MANY CASES,
RIGHT?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
SO THE-- AS SOON AS WE FOUND
THIS OUT, WE THOUGHT, WELL, WHY
ARE THEY NOT APPLYING?
IF THESE STUDENTS COULD GET IN,
WHAT IS THE EXPLANATION FOR WHY
THEY'RE NOT APPLYING?
WE TRIED TO ELIMINATE SOME
EXPLANATIONS.
AND THE FIRST ONE WE LOOKED AT
WAS, WELL, ARE THEY NOT ABLE TO
AFFORD THESE VERY SELECTIVE
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES?
BUT INTEREST WILL ENOUGH, FOR
HIGH-ACHIEVING STUDENTS, THE
MORE SELECTIVE THE UNIVERSITY
THEY ATTEND, THE LESS THEY WILL
PAY.
SO THESE STUDENTS ARE ACTUALLY
OFTEN PAYING MORE TO ATTEND A
COMMUNITY COLLEGE OR A
NONSELECTIVE FOUR-YEAR COLLEGE
THAN THEY WOULD PAY TO ATTEND
HARVARD, YALE, OR PRINCETON.
SO THAT'S REALLY NOT THE
EXPLANATION.
THOSE VERY SELECTIVE COLLEGES
ARE LESS EXPENSIVE FOR THEM.
>> Brown: IN BRIEF, WHAT IS
THE EXPLANATION?
WHY DON'T THEY REACH OUT?
>> WELL, THE COLLEGES ARE
REACHING OUT--
>> Brown: NO, I MEAN THE
STUDENTS.
>> OH, THE STUDENT.
>> Brown: WHY DON'T THE
STUDENTS KNOW?
>> WE THINK-- WE HYPOTHESIZE THE
REASON THE STUDENTS DON'T KNOW
IS THAT THE LOW-INCOME,
HIGH-ACHIEVING STUDENTS WHO DO
NOT APPLY TO SELECTIVE COLLEGES
AND UNIVERSITIES ARE FAIRLY
ISOLATED.
THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT THEY'RE
RURAL.
BUT THAT THEY'RE ONE OF ONLY
TWO OR THREE VERY HIGH-ACHIEVING
STUDENT IN THEIR HIGH SCHOOL.
WE MIGHT BE TALKING ABOUT JUST
AN ORDINARY HIGH SCHOOL IN A
WORKING CLASS KIND OF
NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT DOESN'T HAVE THAT MANY
STUDENTS QUALIFIED TO GO TO A
PRINCETON OR HARVARD OR YALE.
AND THE COUNSELOR IS NOT
PARTICULARLY EXPERT 99ING WHAT
COLLEGES ARE OUT THERE.
MAYBE THE HIGH SCHOOL COUNSELOR
SAYS TO THE STUDENT T,UN, YOU
REALLY OUGHT TO GO TO COLLEGE.
I THINK YOU OUGHT TO GO TO A
GOOD COLLEGE, BUT THE HIGH
SCHOOL COUNSELOR DOESN'T HAVE
THE TIME OR EXPERTISE TO BE ABLE
TO HELP THE STUDENT SORT OUT THE
FULL RAGE OF COLLEGES AND THE
FINANCIAL AID OPPORTUNITIES OUT
THERE.
>> Brown: MICHELLE MINTER,
FROM YOUR STANDPOINT AT ONE OF
THE VERY ELITE SCHOOLS, I GUESS,
WHY DO YOU NOT KNOW?
WHY DO YOU NOT THAN ALL THESE
MORE STUDENTS ARE OUT THERE IF
THERE ARE THAT MANY WHO ARE
ELIGIBLE AND QUALIFIED?
>> YEAH.
OUR ADMISSIONS OFFICE TRIES VERY
HARD TO REACH ANYONE WE CAN
REACH TO LET THEM KNOW THAT
PRINCETON WOULD BE A GOOD PLACE
FOR THEM, AND WE OFFER VERY,
VERY GENEROUS FINANCIAL AID.
AS CAROLINE HAS SAID, WE CAN
MAKE PRINCETON AFFORDABLE FOR
ANY STUDENT.
THE CHALLENGE OFTEN IS THAT
LOW-INCOME STUDENTS DON'T TAKE
THE S.A.T. OR TH A.C.T., THE OR
ADVANCED LAIMENT TEST UNTIL LATE
IN THEIR HIGH SCHOOL CAREER,
OFTEN THEIR SENIOR YEAR, AND
THAT'S A VERY LATE POINT FOR US
TO BE ABLE TO REACH THEM.
WE CAN SEND SOME MAILINGS.
WE CAN TRY AND USE E-MAIL.
BUT A LOT OF WHAT REALLY MATTERS
FOR LOW-INCOME STUDENT IF
THEY'RE GOING TO LEAVE THE
COMMUNITY THEY'RE FROM, IF
THEY'RE GOING TO GO OUTSIDE OF
THEIR COMFORT ZONE, IS THEY NEED
A LOT OF PERSONAL CONTACT, AND
IT'S VERY HARD TO DO THAT ON
S N TO GET
ADMISSIONS OFFICERS OUT TO
STUDENT WHO ARE RELATIVELYITE
ICEALATED IN THEIR HIGH SCHOOLS
IN PERSON.
WE DO THE BEST WE CAN, BUT IT
CAN BE VERY DIFFICULT TO JUST
FIGURE OUT WHERE THEY ARE.
>> Brown: I DON'T KNOW HOW
MUCH YOU'VE H LOOK
AT YOUR SISTER'S STUDY HERE, BUT
WHAT DO YOU DO NOW?
MAO DO YOU-- HOW BIG A PROBLEM
IS IT FOR YOU?
AND HOW DO YOU DO A BETTER JOB
OF REACHING-- OF REACHING--
REACHING OUT MORE?
>> WE DON'T THINK IT'S A
PROBLEM.
WE THINK IT'S A TREMENDOUS
OPPORTUNITY.
WE ALREADY HAD A TRUSTEE
COMMITTEE CHAIRED BY OUR
PRESIDENT SHIRLEY TILLMAN,
LOOKING AT HOW WE DID OUTREACH
TO LOW-INCOME STUDENTS AND
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT IF THERE
REALLY WERE MORE OUT THERE.
IT WAS EXACTLY WHAT CAROLINE WAS
SAYING, THAT THERE WAS SOME
CONCERN WE REALLY WERE TAPPING
OUT THE WHOLE POOL.
THIS DATA IS REMARKABLE BECAUSE
IT TELLS US THAT WE ARE NOT
TAPPING OUT THE WHOLE POOL, THAT
THERE ARE LOTS OF LOW-INCOME
STUDENTS WHO COULD ACHIEVE AT
THE LEVEL OF PRINCETON OTHER AND
SELECTIVE CLNLZ.
SO WE'RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT
THAT.
WE THINK IT CREATES AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR US.
THE CHALLENGE THEN IS TO FIGURE
OUT HOW WE DO THE OUTREACH SO
THAT WE CAN ACTUALLY GET TO
THOSE STUDENT.
THAT'S STILT LOGISTICAL
CHALLENGE.
>> Brown: CAROLINE IT MAY BE
AN OPPORTUNITY GOING FORWARD,
BUT IT SEEMS LIKE A PROBLEM
RIGHT NOW, RIGHT?
WE TALK A LOT ABOUT ON THIS
PROGRAM ABOUT DIVISIONS IN THE
COUNTRY, ECONOMIC, EDUCATIONAL,
SOCIAL-- YOU'RE SHOWING THAT
PART OF THAT-- PART OF THAT
DIVISION, RIGHT?
>> YES.
I THINK THERE IS-- LET ME SAY
SORT OF THE POSITIVE VERSION THE
WAY I LOOK AT THIS.
THE FIRST IS THE COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES ARE ALREADY VERY
SUCCESSFUL IN RECARRUTH
LOW-INCOME, HIGH-ACHIEVING
STUDENTS FROM SOME HIGH SCHOOLS.
SO ANY HIGH SCHOOL THAT THEY
HAVE FOUND THAT IN THE PAST HAS
HAD A NUMBER OF HIGH-ACHIEVING
LOW-INCOME STUDENT, THEY ARE
THERE EVERY YEAR, AND THEY ARE
VERY SUCCESSFUL AT GET, THOSE
STUDENTS TO APPLY TO VERY
SELECTIVE COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES, AND ONCE THEY
APPLY THEY GIVE THEM GENEROUS
FINANCIAL AID, THOSE STUDENTS
ACTUALLY ENROLL AND THEY DO VERY
WELL.
THEY GRADUATE AT VERY HIGH
GRADUATION RATE AND THEY GET
GOOD GRADES.
IN SOME SENSE, WHERE THE
STUDENTS THEY HAVE FOUND, THEY
HAVE ALREADY HAD ENORMOUS
SUCCESS.
I THINK WE ARE DEALING HERE WITH
INTELLIGENT STUDENTS.
AND I THINK THE PROBABILITY THAT
WE ARE NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO
GET THEM TO BE INFORMED ENOUGH
TO MAKE COLLEGE APPLICATION
DECISIONS, OF THAT ARE MORE--
THAT ARE JUST MORE INFORMATION
DRIVEN SO THAT THEY REALIZE
THEIR FULL RANGE OF
OPPORTUNITIES IS SMALL.
I THINK WE WILL BE ABLE TO GET
OVER THIS HURDLE.
THIS IS A LITTLE HURDLE.
I THINK WHAT PEOPLE HAD THOUGHT
WAS THAT KIDS FROM LOW-INCOME
BACKGROUNDS JUST COULDN'T EVER
MAKE IT INTO THE RANKS OF THE
HIGH ACHIEVERS, AND THAT WOULD
BE A HUGE HURDLE TO OVERCOME.
IF YOU THINK I NEED TO CHANGE
ALL OF THEIR CIRCUMSTANCES IN
ORDER TO GET A LOW-INCOME
STUDENT TO BE PREPARED TO STUDY
AT A PLACE LIKE PRINCETON, THEN,
OF COURSE, THAT'S ENORMOUS.
HERE WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A SMALL
HURDLE.
WE HAVE THESE STUDENTS OUT
THERE.
IT'S AN AMAZING OPPORTUNITY FOR
THE UNITED STATES TO INCREASE
INTERGENERATIONAL MOBILITY, TO
INCREASE INCOME MOBILITY, TO
EXPAND THE NUMBER OF COMMUNITIES
AND NEIGHBORHOODS WHO KNOW ABOUT
EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY IN THE
UNITED STATES IF WE CAN MAKE
CONTACT WITH THESE STUDENTS,
WHICH SHOULD NOT BE THAT
DIFFICULT.
>> Brown: LET ME ASK YOU
FINALLY MICHELLE, WE ARE GOING
TO BE LOOKING AT A LOT OF THIS
ISSUE, LATER ON WITH THE SUPREME
COURT LOOKING AT SOME OF THESE
THINGS IN A BIG CASE, I JUST
WONDER FROM YOUR PERSPECTIVE AT
PRINCETON, DO YOU DEFINE PRIBS
TON'S AND OTHER SCHOOL'S ROLES
IN MAKING SURE THERE IS A
DIVERSITY OF LOWER-INCOME, IN
PARTICULAR, STUDENTS, AND LESS
DIVISIONS WITHIN SOCIETY.
>> WE THINK THAT'S ONE OF THE
MOST IMPORTANT PARTS OF OUR
MISSION.
WE WANT TO HAVE A
SOCIOECONOMICALLY DIVERSE
STUDENT BODY.
WE DON'T KNOW WE'RE DOING OUR
JOB IF WEEP DON'T DO THAT.
THAT'S WHY WE HAVE PUT IN PLACE
SUCH GENEROUS FINANCIAL AID.
THAT WAS THE FIRST BARRIER WE
PERCEIVED.
WE ARE FAILING AT THE ELITE
COLLEGES IF WE DON'T CREATE
SOCIAL MOBILITY.
THAT'S ONE OF OUR BIGGEST
RESPONSIBILITIES.
SO WE'RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT THE
OPPORTUNITY TO DO MORE HERE, AND
WE THINK WE HAVE AN IMPORTANT
ROLE TO PLAY.
>> Brown: MISHENT MINTER,
CAROLINE HOXBY, SMU BOTH VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Suarez: FINALLY TONIGHT, AN
ONLINE SPAT THAT'S CAUSING HAVOC
AROUND THE WORLD WIDE WEB.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE COMPANY
FIGHTS SPAM; THE OTHER IS SAID
TO BE BEHIND SENDING THOSE PESKY
E-MAILS.
A DISPUTE BETWEEN THE TWO HAS
LED TO ONE OF THE LARGEST
REPORTED CYBER ATTACKS IN
INTERNET HISTORY.
THE RESULT: WIDESPREAD
CONGESTION THAT'S SLOWING ACCESS
FOR MILLIONS OF USERS TO SITES
LIKE NETFLIX.
NICOLE PERLROTH HAS BEEN
COVERING THE STORY FOR THE "NEW
YORK TIMES" AND JOINS ME NOW.
THANK FOR BEING WITH US.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Suarez: LET'S SET THE TABLE
RE.HE
WHAT IS HAPPENING IN THIS
PARTICULAR SEEBER ATTACK?
>> IT'S VERY TECHNICAL, BUT
ESSENTIALLY, WHAT HAPPENED WAS
THIS GROUP THAT SENDS OUT A
BLACK LEST OF SPAMMERS TO E-MAIL
PROVIDERS SO THEY CAN BLOCK THE
SPAMMERS BLOCKED A GROUP CALLED
CYBER BUNKERS, WHICH HOSTS WEB
SITES ANONYMOUSLY.
THEY SAY THEY'LL HOST ANYTHING
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF CHILD
PORNOGRAPHY AND TERRORISTS.
SHORTLY AFTER THIS HAPPENED, YOU
SAW SPAM HOUSE, THIS VOLUNTEER
ANTI-SPAM GRIEWRNG GET HIT WITH
WHAT ARE CALLED DENIAL OF
SERVICE ATTACKS, WHERE AN
ATTACKER WILL JUST FLOOD A SITE
WITH DATA REQUESTS UNTIL IT
COLLAPSES UNDER THE LOAD.
SPAM HOUSE ENLISTED ANOTHER
COMPANY HERE IN SILICON VALLEY
CALLED CLOUD FLARE THAT
MITIGATES AGAINST THESE TYPES OF
ATTACKS.
WHAT THE ATTACKERS DID THEN HAS
SINCE ALMOST SLOWED-- NOT
ALMOST, IT HAS SLOWED INTERNET
CONNECTIONS AND BROUGHT UP ERROR
MESSAGES FOR HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS OF INTERNET USERS
AROUNDED WORLD.
THE WAY THEY WERE ABLE TO DO
THIS WAS VERY TECHNICAL, BUT
ESSENTIALLY THEY WERE ABLE TO
EXPLOIT SOME OF THE BEST AND
WORST ELEMENTS OF THE INTERNET.
THE INTERNET BY DEFAULT IS SET
UP IN A WAY THAT IT'S OPEN AND
LOOSELY REGULATED,
ON SERVERS THAT ACCEPT DATA
REQUESTS FROM EVERYWHERE.
AND WHAT THE ATTACKERS DID WAS
THEY ESSENTIALLY PRETENDED TO BE
THIS GROUP, SPAM HOUSE, AND SENT
MILLIONS OF DATA REQUESTS TO
SERVERS ALL OVER THE WORLD THAT
THEN AMPLIFIED THEM AND SENT
THAT TRAFFIC BACK TO THE
VICTIM-- IN THIS CASE SAM
SPOUSE, CLOUD PLAYER, THE
COMPANY TRYING TOW HELP IT
DISPOO EVEN SOME OF THE INTERNET
SERVICES THAT HELPED CLOUD
PLAYER.
IN THE PROCESS THEY CONSUMED
HUGE AMOUNTS OF BANDWIDTH AND
RESOURCES FROM USERS ALL OVER
THE GLOBE AND AS A RESULT YOU
SAW INTERNET CONNECTIONS SLOW
FOR HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF
PEOPLE AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Sreenivasan: WE HAVE HEARD
ABOUT THESE DENIAL OF SERVICE
ATTACKS, ESPECIALLY FROM ONE
GOVERNMENT TO ANOTHER.
IS THIS BIGGER?
>> IT IS BIGGER.
SO STARTING LAST SEPTEMBER WE'VE
BEEN COVERING ATTACKS THAT
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS SAY ARE
COMING FROM IRAN, ALTHOUGH WE
DON'T KNOW THIS FOR SURE YET,
AIMED AT AMERICAN BANKS.
AND THEY'VE INTERMITTENTLY TAKEN
AMERICAN BANKS OFF LINE,
STARTING LAST SEPTEMBER.
THE AMOUNT OF TRAFFIC THAT WE'VE
SEEN IN THE LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS
THAT HAS ESCALATED FROM THIS WAR
BETWEEN THESE TWO COMPANIES IS
WHAT INTERNET SECURITY SPECIAL
ICHTS SAY IS FIVE TIMES BIGGER
IN STRENGTH THAN SOME OF THE
ATTACK TRAFFIC THAT WAS HITTING
THOSE BANKS.
NOW, JUST FOR SOME ADDED CONTEXT
HERE.
THE ATTACK TRAFFIC THAT WAS
HITTING THOSE BANKS IS ALMOST 12
TIMES MORE POWERFUL THAN THE
AMOUNT OF TRAFFIC THAT RUSSIA
DIRECTED AT A SIMILAR ATTACK ON
ESTONIA IN 2007, WHICH ALMOST
CRIPPLED ESTONIA.
SO WHEN YOU LOOK AT IT IN THAT
CONTEXT, THIS IS A VERY LARGE
ATTACK, OF.
INTERSECURITY FOLKS ARE SAYING
THIS IS THE LARGEST SUCH ATTACK
OF ITS KIND THAT WE'VE EVER SEEN
ON THE INTERNATIONAL.
>> Sreenivasan: SO IF THIS IS
SOME SORT OF GANG WAR BETWEEN
THESE TWO COMPANIES WHY ARE WE
ALL GETTING CAUGHT IN THE
CROSS-FIRE?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THEY'VE BEEN ABLE TO EXPLOIT
SERVES, OR AROUND THE WORLD THAT
ARE DESIGNED TO ACCEPT DATA
REQUESTS FROM ANYWHERE, AND
PARTLY BECAUSE THEY'VE BEEN SET
UP IN SUCH A WAY TO ACCEPT DATA
REQUESTS THERE ANYWHERE, YOU
CAN'T JUST EASILY SHUT THEM
DOWN.
I MEAN, THEY'RE DIRECTING THIS
TRAFFIC, THREE MILLION SERVERS
AROUND THE GLOBE, AND IF YOU
SHUT DOWNTOWN SERVERS, YOU WOULD
EFFECTIVELY HALT THE INTERNET.
ONE OF THE PROBLEMS HERE IS
THOSE SERVERSES HAVE BEEN
CONFIGURED TO ACCEPT TRAFFIC
FROM ANYWHERE EXCEPT FILTERING
THEM TO SEE IF THE TRAFFIC IS
LEGITIMATE
AND THAT PROBLEM IS CALLED OPEN
RESOLVERS.
THIS HAS BEEN A PROBLEM THAT HAS
BEEN WELL KNOWN IN THE INTERNET
SECURITY COMMUNITY SINCE AT
LEAST THE YEAR 2000, WHEN A
BUNCH OF INTERNET SECURITY
SPECIALISTS GOT TOGETHER AND PUT
TOGETHER A DOCUMENT OF BEST
PRACTICES ON HOW TO SOLVE THIS
MEMBER.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT COMPANIES,
AND EVEN PEOPLE AT HOME, AREN'T
CHECKING THEIR SYSTEMS PROPERLY
TO MAKE SURE THAT TRAFFIC
LEAVING THEIR SYSTEMS IS
ACTUALLY COMING FROM THEM
INSTEAD OF SOMEONE ELSE SPOOFING
THEIR SYSTEM WHICH IS WHAT THE
ATTACKERS WERE DOING IN THIS
CASE.
>> Sreenivasan: VERY BRIEFLY I
WANT TO ASK IS THERE ANYTHING WE
CAN DO ABOUT THIS?
>> THERE IS.
IT'S JUST GOING TO TAKE A WHILE.
LIKE I SAID, IT'S A PROBLEM THAT
WE'VE KNOWN ABOUT SINCE 2000,
AND, UNFORTUNATELY, YOU KNOW,
IT'S GOING TO TAKE A LOT OF
WAIRNS FOR PEOPLE TO REALIZE
JUST HAVING THEIR SYSTEMS OPEN
LIKE THIS AND NOT CONFIGURING
THEM PROPERLY CAN CAUSE AN
ATTACK OF THIS MAGNITUDE.
SO HOPEFULLY WE'RE DRAWING
AWARENESS TO IT, BUT IT IS ONE
OF THE FIRST TIMES WE'VE SEEN
HOW THIS COULD BE EXPLOITED.
>> Sreenivasan: ANOTHER NICOLE
PERLROTH OF THE "NEW YORK
TIMES," THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE OTHER
MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
IT WAS DAY TWO FOR GAY MARRIAGE
AT THE SUPREME COURT.
AT ISSUE: WHETHER LEGALLY
MARRIED SAME-SEX COUPLES CAN BE
DENIED FEDERAL BENEFITS.
JULIA PIERSON WAS SWORN IN AS
THE FIRST WOMAN TO LEAD THE U.S.
SECRET SERVICE.
THE AGENCY WAS ROCKED BY A
PROSTITUTION SCANDAL LAST YEAR.
>> Suarez: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT A
SEATTLE PROGRAM THAT BRINGS
BABIES INTO CLASSROOMS TO TEACH
COMPASSION AND STEM BULLYING.
I'M RAY SUAREZ.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.